# Global forest risk to climate and land-use change

# ABSTRACT
Earth’s forests, covering an area approximately Africa and Europe’s landmasses combined, play a crucial role in mitigating climate change and sustaining global biodiversity. Climate change and land degradation will likely undermine efforts to enhance forest extent and integrity, as well as their role in climate mitigation, but little is known on where the greatest impacts may be. We integrate an assessment of contemporary forest integrity, which characterises the ecosystem’s ability to adapt to anthropogenic impacts, and projections of future deforestation to present a comprehensive measure of global forest risk. We identify forests with exceptionally high isotherm shift velocities in the forests of east Europe, boreal North America, and Amazonian South America. A spatially explicit land-use scenario suggests that forests could be converted for intensive human land uses by 2050, with nearly all intact forests in Africa and South Asia exposed. We show unmitigated land change is likely to amplify climate risk in more than a quarter of forests (29%), with notable risk across Central Africa, South Asia, and South America. However, notable differences in risks exist between different future scenarios, highlighting an opportunity to reduce risk by margins comparable to those required to meet the Paris Agreement's mitigation targets. Incorporating these results into strategic policy and management will support more sustainable use and protection of forest ecosystems and the services they provide.
